---
layout: cite
page: Genres
project: S17
title: Noir
author: Denzel Buenafe
media: Text
drive_id: 1nuk1LiOwuQq9_wlt5f7iiZit7ybkpZzvNk4ckcK1h7s
---
- Rivera becomes the assistant detective for a big time P.I. in the black and white city of Los Chicago, NY. The detective receives a call in his smoky office and a buxom lady with a mink scarf arrives. She is worried about an attack from a scorned lover while she is at a gala at the Grande-Royale Hotel. The two take the job and go to the hotel. They meet the scorned lover (the host), a mafia member, an undercover policeman, a grizzled veteran, a bookish intellectual, and a maid. They have a grand time, but suddenly the host of the gala is found dead in a backroom. The policeman calls for backup and the hotel is on lockdown. Rivera quickly discovers that the detective is completely inept and that she has to solve the mystery herself. She searches through the kitchens and lower floors to find clues and deduces that the maid had killed the host, but as she is about to confront her, she is found dead in the swimming pool. After that the people retire to their beds for the night and Rivera has to move to another genre. 
- The next morning, she looks around for more clues. She goes to the hotel minbar and she orders virgin white Russian from the bartender. The bartender slips that the police and the mafia have been at fight with each other and that the maid may have ties with with the mafia. You interrogate the policeman and discover he is innocent with an airtight alibi. Then you check with the mafia to see if he knew who may have been troubling her, and he suggests that she looked troubled last night. You check her room and find a threatening letter telling her to kill the host or else her secret affair with the veteran will be revealed. With this lead, you narrow the choice to the intellectual and confront him. He is arrested on the detective’s insistence and the police declare this case closed, but why was the host targeted at all? The case does not sit well with Rivera but she must leave for the time being.
- The last session begins in the jail where the intellectual is being held. She asks him about his motive, to which he replies he was framed and that he did not do it. Rivera realizes that they had simply leapt to conclusions by ruling out the other guests and accusing him. She goes back to the hotel, still under crime scene lockdown, and notices that the chalk outline around the host is unfinished despite him working on it apparently all night. The voluptuous client confides that the detective kept making cryptic reassurances at her last night while she was at the parlor. There, you find a scrawl by the detective that matches the threatening letter the maid received. Thus you confront the detective in the office. He is arrested in a puzzle battle, and the case is closed.
